
@hyphenation{Linear}

Symbols  and names used in adjustment statistics.

@c
@c
@ifnottex
@multitable @columnfractions .15 .85
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@multitable @columnfractions .13 .87
@end iftex
@c
@headitem Symbol @tab Description
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{v, V}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{v, \bf V}
@end iftex
@tab residual, vector of residuals
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{p, P}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{p, \bf P}
@end iftex
@tab observation weight, matrix of weights
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{[pvv]}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{\tt [pvv]}
@end iftex
@tab sum of weighted residuals v'Pv.
     @*The summation symbol [.] used to be popular in geodetic
     literiture, namely in connection with description of normal
     equations, during pre-computer era. It was introduced by Carl
     Friedrich Gauss who also introduce symbol P for weights (Latin
     pondus means weight). Letter V for adjustment reductions comes
     from German Verbesserung. @*We use [pvv] symbol only in html and
     text adjustment output. Sic transit gloria mundi.
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{Ax = b, P}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{\bf Ax = b, P}
@end iftex
@tab design matrix, right-hand side (rhs) and weight matrix P
@c   Linear system to be solved by the method of least squares.
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{r}
@end ifnottex
@iftex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{r}
@end iftex
@tab redundancy, typically number of columns minus rows of A
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{Nx = n}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{\bf Nx = n}
@end iftex
@tab normal equations,
@c
@c
@ifnottex
 N = A'PA,
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
 @math{\bf N=A'PA},
@end iftex
@c
@c
@ifnottex
 @t{n = A'Pb}.
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
 @math{\bf n=A'Pb}.
@end iftex
@*The method of least squares can be solved directly from
@ifnottex
 @t{Ax=b}.
@end ifnottex
@iftex
 @math{\bf Ax = b},
@end iftex
which is generally a more numerically stable solution
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{Q = inv(N)}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{\bf Q = N^{-1}}
@end iftex
@tab cofactor matrix for adjusted unknowns (matrix of weight
     coefficients, cofactors, of adjusted unknowns)
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{Q_L = AQA'}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{\bf Q_L = AQA'}
@end iftex
@tab cofactor matrix for adjusted observations
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{f[%]}
@end ifnottex
@iftex
@item @math{\tt f[\%]}@c @math{f[\%]}
@end iftex
@tab degree of control of an observation in the network, spans
     from 0% (uncontrolled, e.g. observed direction and distance to an
     isolated adjustment point) to 100% (fully controled,
     e.g. measured distance between two fixed points)
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{m0}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{m_0}
@end iftex
@tab a priori reference standard deviation.
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{m0'}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{m_0'}
@end iftex
@tab a posteriori estimate of reference standard deviation
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{m0''}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{m_0''}
@end iftex
@tab minimal a posteriori estimate of reference standard
     deviation after removal one observation (removal of the
     observation leading to minimal value of m0'')
@c
@c
@ifnottex
@item @t{g}
@end ifnottex
@c
@iftex
@item @math{\tt g}
@end iftex
@tab position of approximate coordinates xy of the adjusted point with
     respect to its confidence ellipse (g < 1 approximate coordinates
     are located inside the ellipse; g = 1 on the ellipse; g > 1
     outside the ellipse).  @*Zero value of g indicates that
     approximate and adjusted coordinates are identical. This
     situation typically happens when iterative adjustement is needed
     due to poor initial linearization (initial approximate
     coordinates are too far from the adjusted) and the iterative
     process ends up with identical approximate and adjusted
     coordinates.
@c
@c
@end multitable
